# F# Workshop

## Project structure

1. __api-definition__ folder contains the open-api spec file __clock-or-die.yaml__ which defines the api.
1. __src__ file contains code related to the project

### Pre-requisite

This project uses :
- [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0)
- _F# 8_, which is included in the SDK, however, you can check this [website]() for more information.
- We also use _C# 11_. 
- If you plan on modifying the API part of this workshop, you also need to install [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) as well as [.NET 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/2.1)

### For those who wish to setup the workshop

From the current folder, run the following:
1. `dotnet tool restore` to restore [paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) tool use to handle project's dependencies.
1. `dotnet restore` to restore project dependencies

### For those who plan on modifying the API

Again you do not need to modify the api for this workshop, instructions below is for information.

The API part is generated from the openAPI (3.0) spec file __api-definition/clock-or-die.yaml__ using the tool __nswag__. All controllers and DTOs are generated by this tool.

In order to modify the API part of the project, you need to update the spec and then generate the code using the __nswag cli__.

To install the tool, I recommend using npm. _Make sure that you have the .net2.1 SDK on your machine before running the tool._ In the current folder run:
1. `npm i -g nswag` this will install nswag globally on your machine
1. `nswag run` this will generate the code using the config file __nswag.json__, all code generated will be in the file __src/ClockOrDie.WebApi/Controllers/CodeGen/CodeGenClockOrDieController.cs__

__PLEASE NOTE:__ _If you change the name of the output file, you will need to adjust the project accordingly_

## Let's code in F# !

In this workshop, we will code a very simple __Time Tracker__ API, in order to demonstrate F# in a more realistic/practical context.

In order to focus on the F# language and demonstrate its compatibility with C#, we will also use C#.

This project implements the __[Functional Core/Imperative Shell architecture](https://www.kennethlange.com/functional-core-imperative-shell/)__ .

In short it allows to separate _business constraints_ from _technical ones_ by getting rid of _side effects_ within the _business code_ 

The project structure is as follow:
1. __src/ClockOrDie.WebApi__ which host the web api code, entirely in C#
   - The file __Controllers/ClockOrDieController.cs__ contains the API part which will call _F# adapters_.
   - The file __Controllers/CustomValidationFilter.cs__ contains some validation code on request input
2.__src/ClockOrDie.Core__ which host the business code, entirely in F#
   - __Domain.fs__ contains the code which implement the business logic. As required in the architecture we chose, this code is 100% synchrone and free of side effects. Therefore it is completely free from concerns of the outside world.
   - __Effects.fs__ infrastructure code needed to communicate with the outside world with other technical concerns.
   - __Shell.fs__ code that will be use by the outside world to realise our use cases. More on this during the workshop.
3.__src/ClockOrDie.Core.Tests__ which host a test project, entirely in F#, using Xunit & Unquote (for assertion)
   - __ActivityDomainTests.fs__ is a set of unit failing tests. The workshop consists of passing those test green. 
